---
layout: post
title: Grid Your Lines
---
## A Basic Grid Object
What's the point of formalizing something so basic? Judicious laziness, as always. Anything that makes for less typing and/or less thinking is a bonus in my world. Here's a grid that does both nicely.

## The Basics of The Basic Grid Object
### The Overload2D protocol
`Overload2D`, is a set of arithmetic operations on ordered pairs, for example, `CGPoint`. With `Overload2D` you can add and subtract a `CGPoint`to another (or `CGSize` or `CGVector`, or indeed, any ordered pair that conforms to the `Overload2D` protocol). You can multiply and divide by scalars or by ordered pairs. There are various utility functions available, such as `hypoteneuse` and `area` for size-like pairs, and (r, θ) representation for vector- and point-like pairs.

### Indexed addressing on the grid
In the "Snake" AI genetic algorithm apps I've studied, the snake can "sense" only one grid cell away, that is, only the cells adjacent to the snake's head are visible to the snake. In _Arkonia_, my creatures' sensory ranges vary based on genetics and health. The `Indexer` allows you to scan cells as though they're in a linear array, eliminating all that nasty calculating cell locations.

### Asteroidization
You old people out there might recall one of the earliest coin-operated video games, called "Asteroids". You may recall that when any object reached one edge of the screen, it would disappear and reappear on the opposite edge, as opposed to simply crashing into the wall. The grid I'm demonstrating here makes that kind of "warp-jump" easy.